# Disney_Genie
Disney_World_Wait_Time_ABM
Over the years, Disney has revamped its queueing process, transitioning from free paper FastPasses to free digital FastPasses, followed by the paid Genie+ system. Most recently, this evolved into the Lightning Lane system, which includes two options: the Single Pass for one attraction and the Multi Pass, allowing guests to reserve up to three attractions per day. This latest iteration allows guests to enter expedited queues, a service that has become increasingly
monetized. While the precise numbers for the Multi Pass Lightning Lane are not publicly available after the sunset of Genie+, reports indicate that between October 2021 and June 2024, Genie+ generated over 720 million dollars in pretax revenue for The Walt Disney Company(Dammann, 2024).

Additionally, Disney has provided an incentive for guests to stay at Disney properties by allowing them to make Lightning Lane reservations 7 days in advance, compared to just 3 days for off-site guests (Mike, 2024). For example, as of December 2, 2024, the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train Lightning Lane is already sold out until December 8th, with limited availability for the rest of the month (Mike, 2024). While much of the details around the Lightning Lane system are proprietary and dynamic, a rough estimate suggests that the standard ratio of Lightning Lane to regular guests is 4:1, which can spike to 10:1 during peak times (Mike, 2024). During the offseason, it is reasonable to expect a ratio of 2:1. Although Lightning Lane pricing is dynamic, peak season prices can reach up to $450 per person per day (Mike, 2024). Given these changes, one would expect wait times for regular guests to increase due to the priority given to Lightning Lane users. However, Disney fans and sites like Thrill-Data are reporting that wait times have actually decreased, despite steady or at attendance numbers compared to last year (Mike, 2024). So, what is happening with the wait times? Many of the available theories are based on anecdotal observations, including issues around the purchasing of
Lightning Lanes, the uctuating ratio of Lightning Lane to regular guests, and inaccuracies in posted wait times. Currently, there is no solid data to explain this phenomenon (Bricker, 2024).

To address these questions, we propose using Agent-Based Models (ABM) to accurately predict wait times for both Lightning Lane users and regular guests, accounting for different crowd levels and estimating guest satisfaction. We have selected the Seven Dwarfs Mine Train attraction as our model for several reasons: its popularity among both children and adults, its location in the Magic Kingdom (the most popular theme park in the world) (Kelleher, 2024), most of the initial technical issues have been resolved due to its ten years of operations, and that the Lightning Lane for this attraction is available only as a single pass, not as part of a multi-pass package.

Background on Seven Dwarfs Mine Train

The Seven Dwarfs Mine Train, a family-friendly roller coaster, opened on May 28, 2014. Set in the world of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, the ride allows guests to board a mine train and follow the dwarves through a mine, ending outside Snow White's cabin (Kubersky, 2022). The attraction operates up to ve trains, each seating 20 guests (Kubersky, 2022). Cast members report that, with technical issues, the minimum dispatch interval is 43 seconds between trains, which results in a throughput of 1,674 guests per hour (Kubersky, 2022).
